# 5.34 Privacy and protection of PII

**Control type:** Information security properties  
**Cybersecurity concepts:** #Identify #Protect  
**Operational capabilities:** #Information_protection #Legal_and_compliance  
**Security domains:** #Preventive #Confidentiality #Integrity #Availability #Protection

## Control

The organization should identify and meet the requirements regarding the preservation of privacy and protection of PII according to applicable laws and regulations and contractual requirements.

## Purpose

To ensure compliance with legal, statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements related to the information security aspects of the protection of PII.

## Guidance

The organization should establish and communicate a topic-specific policy on privacy and protection of PII to all relevant interested parties.

The organization should develop and implement procedures for the preservation of privacy and protection of PII. These procedures should be communicated to all relevant interested parties involved in the processing of personally identifiable information.

Compliance with these procedures and all relevant legislation and regulations concerning the preservation of privacy and protection of PII requires appropriate roles, responsibilities and controls. Often this is best achieved by the appointment of a person responsible, such as a privacy officer, who should provide guidance to personnel, service providers and other interested parties on their individual responsibilities and the specific procedures that should be followed.

Responsibility for handling PII should be dealt with taking into consideration relevant legislation and regulations.

Appropriate technical and organizational measures to protect PII should be implemented.

## Other information

A number of countries have introduced legislation placing controls on the collection, processing, transmission and deletion of PII. Depending on the respective national legislation, such controls can impose duties on those collecting, processing and disseminating PII and can also restrict the authority to transfer PII to other countries.

ISO/IEC 29100 provides a high-level framework for the protection of PII within ICT systems. Further information on privacy information management systems can be found in ISO/IEC 27701. Specific information regarding privacy information management for public clouds acting as PII processors can be found in ISO/IEC 27018.

ISO/IEC 29134 provides guidelines for privacy impact assessment (PIA) and gives an example of the structure and content of a PIA report. Compared with ISO/IEC 27005, this is focused on PII processing and relevant to those organizations that process PII. This can help identify privacy risks and possible mitigations to reduce these risks to acceptable levels.

---

*Source: ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E), pages 70-71*

